docs/Docker_Compose.md, before:

# Docker Compose

## Installation
Install a recent version of [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/), and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/).

For Ubuntu 18/20 systems this is:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh
sudo sh get-docker.sh
sudo curl -L "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/1.29.2/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m)" -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
```

Then run as root

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mediacms-io/mediacms
cd mediacms
```

The default option is to serve MediaCMS on all ips available of the server (including localhost).
If you want to explore more options (including setup of https with letsencrypt certificate) checkout the docs on the [Docker deployment](/docs/Docker_deployment.md) page for different docker-compose setups to use.

Run

```bash
docker-compose up
```

This will download all MediaCMS related Docker images and start all containers. Once it finishes, MediaCMS will be installed and available on http://localhost or http://ip

A user admin has been created with random password, you should be able to see it at the end of migrations container, eg

```
migrations_1     | Created admin user with password: gwg1clfkwf
```

or if you have set the ADMIN_PASSWORD variable on Dockerfile, that variable will be set as the admin user's password

## Update

Get latest MediaCMS image and stop/start containers

```bash
cd /path/to/mediacms/installation
docker pull mediacms/mediacms
docker-compose down
docker-compose up
```

## Configuration
Checkout the configuration docs on [Configuration](/docs/Configuration.md) page.


## Maintenance
Database is stored on ../postgres_data/ and media_files on media_files/

Commit message:

move envs from Dockerfile to docker-compose files (#264)

docs/Docker_Compose.md, after:

# Docker Compose

## Installation
Install a recent version of [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/), and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/).

For Ubuntu 18/20 systems this is:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh
sudo sh get-docker.sh
sudo curl -L "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/1.29.2/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m)" -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
```

Then run as root

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mediacms-io/mediacms
cd mediacms
```

The default option is to serve MediaCMS on all ips available of the server (including localhost).
If you want to explore more options (including setup of https with letsencrypt certificate) checkout the docs on the [Docker deployment](/docs/Docker_deployment.md) page for different docker-compose setups to use.

Run

```bash
docker-compose up
```

This will download all MediaCMS related Docker images and start all containers. Once it finishes, MediaCMS will be installed and available on http://localhost or http://ip

A user admin has been created with random password, you should be able to see it at the end of migrations container, eg

```
migrations_1     | Created admin user with password: gwg1clfkwf
```

or if you have set the ADMIN_PASSWORD variable on docker-compose file you have used (example `docker-compose.yaml`), that variable will be set as the admin user's password

## Update

Get latest MediaCMS image and stop/start containers

```bash
cd /path/to/mediacms/installation
docker pull mediacms/mediacms
docker-compose down
docker-compose up
```

## Configuration
Checkout the configuration docs on [Configuration](/docs/Configuration.md) page.


## Maintenance
Database is stored on ../postgres_data/ and media_files on media_files/
